README.md, before:

# AdvancedAndroid_Emojify

This is the toy app for the Libraries lesson of the [Advanced Android App Development course on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/advanced-android-app-development--ud855).

## How to use this repo while taking the course

Each code repository in this class has a chain of commits that looks like this:

![listofcommits](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58befe2e_listofcommits/listofcommits.png)

These commits show every step you'll take to create the app. They include **Exercise** commits and **Solution** commits. 

Exercise commits contain instructions for completing the exercise, while solution commits show the completed exercise. You can tell what a commit is by looking at its commit message. 

For example, **TFCM.01-Exercise-AddGradleDependencies** is the first code step in the Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) lesson. This is the exercise commit, and the exercise is called Add Gradle Dependencies.

Each commit also has a **branch** associated with it of the same name as the commit message, seen below:

![branches](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/April/590390fe_branches-ud855/branches-ud855.png
)
Access all branches from this tab

![listofbranches](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58befe76_listofbranches/listofbranches.png
)


![branchesdropdown](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/April/590391a3_branches-dropdown-ud855/branches-dropdown-ud855.png
)


The branches are also accessible from the drop-down in the "Code" tab


## Working with the Course Code

Here are the basic steps for working with and completing exercises in the repo. This information is linked whenever you start a new exercise project, so don't feel you need to memorize all of this! In fact, skim it now, make sure that you know generally how to do the different tasks, and then come back when you start your first exercise. 

The basic steps are:

1. Clone the repo
2. Checkout the exercise branch
3. Find and complete the TODOs
4. Optionally commit your code changes
5. Compare with the solution


**Step 1: Clone the repo**

As you go through the course, you'll be instructed to clone the different exercise repositories, so you don't need to set these up now. You can clone a repository from github in a folder of your choice with the command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/udacity/REPOSITORY_NAME.git
```

**Step 2: Checkout the exercise branch**

As you do different exercises in the code, you'll be told which exercise you're on, as seen below:
![exerciseexample](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf0087_exerciseexample/exerciseexample.png
)

To complete an exercise, you'll want to check out the branch associated with that exercise. For the exercise above, the command to check out that branch would be:

```bash
git checkout TFCM.01-Exercise-AddGradleDependencies
```

**Step 3: Find and complete the TODOs**

This branch should always have **Exercise** in the title. Once you've checked out the branch, you'll have the code in the exact state you need. You'll even have TODOs, which are special comments that tell you all the steps you need to complete the exercise. You can easily navigate to all the TODOs using Android Studio's TODO tool. To open the TODO tool, click the button at the bottom of the screen that says TODO. This will display a list of all comments with TODO in the project. 

We've numbered the TODO steps so you can do them in order:
![todos](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf00e7_todos/todos.png
)

**Step 4: Optionally commit your code changes**

After You've completed the TODOs, you can optionally commit your changes. This will allow you to see the code you wrote whenever you return to the branch. The following git code will add and save **all** your changes.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Your commit message"
```

**Step 5: Compare with the solution**

Most exercises will have a list of steps for you to check off in the classroom. Once you've checked these off, you'll see a pop up window with a link to the solution code. Note the **Diff** link:

![solutionwindow](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf00f9_solutionwindow/solutionwindow.png
)

The **Diff** link will take you to a Github diff as seen below:
![diff](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf0108_diffsceenshot/diffsceenshot.png
)

All of the code that was added in the solution is in green, and the removed code (which will usually be the TODO comments) is in red. 
## Report Issues
Notice any issues with a repository? Please file a github issue in the repository.

Commit message:

[develop-branch] docs: Update README.md
Explain how to use this repo of mine, compared to Udacity's upstream 
repo.

README.md, after:

# AdvancedAndroid_Emojify

This is the toy app for the Libraries lesson of the [Advanced Android App Development course on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/advanced-android-app-development--ud855).

## My take on the challenges
I've implemented my solutions within the indiviual excercise branches.
So if you'd like to see how I have tackled any given excercise, just checkout the respective branch, e.g. `TLIB.01-Exercise-AddGradleDependency`


### Access all branches from this tab

![listofbranches](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58befe76_listofbranches/listofbranches.png
)

The branches are also accessible from the drop-down in the "Code" tab

![branchesdropdown](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/April/590391a3_branches-dropdown-ud855/branches-dropdown-ud855.png
)

Below, you'll find Udacity's description of how to use their repo in conjunction w/ their course. Please clone your own repo from [**Udacity's repo**](https://github.com/udacity/AdvancedAndroid_Emojify.git) (not from this repo), so you can complete the excercises yourself.


I've upgraded the support libraries to the latest non-JetPack version (28.0.0) in some excercise branches, but migrated the project to AndroidX in all the other ones. Either way, this project uses Gradle version 5.1.1 and the Android Gradle plugin version 3.4.0 so you'll need Android Studio version 3.4 or higher.




## Working with the Course Code

Here are the basic steps for working with and completing exercises in the repo. This information is linked whenever you start a new exercise project, so don't feel you need to memorize all of this! In fact, skim it now, make sure that you know generally how to do the different tasks, and then come back when you start your first exercise.

The basic steps are:

1. Clone the repo
2. Checkout the exercise branch
3. Find and complete the TODOs
4. Optionally commit your code changes
5. Compare with the solution


**Step 1: Clone the repo**

As you go through the course, you'll be instructed to clone the different exercise repositories, so you don't need to set these up now. You can clone a repository from github in a folder of your choice with the command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/udacity/AdvancedAndroid_Emojify.git
```

**Step 2: Checkout the exercise branch**

As you do different exercises in the code, you'll be told which exercise you're on, as seen below:
![exerciseexample](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf0087_exerciseexample/exerciseexample.png
)

To complete an exercise, you'll want to check out the branch associated with that exercise. For the exercise above, the command to check out that branch would be:

```bash
git checkout TFCM.01-Exercise-AddGradleDependencies
```

**Step 3: Find and complete the TODOs**

This branch should always have **Exercise** in the title. Once you've checked out the branch, you'll have the code in the exact state you need. You'll even have TODOs, which are special comments that tell you all the steps you need to complete the exercise. You can easily navigate to all the TODOs using Android Studio's TODO tool. To open the TODO tool, click the button at the bottom of the screen that says TODO. This will display a list of all comments with TODO in the project.

We've numbered the TODO steps so you can do them in order:
![todos](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf00e7_todos/todos.png
)

**Step 4: Optionally commit your code changes**

After You've completed the TODOs, you can optionally commit your changes. This will allow you to see the code you wrote whenever you return to the branch. The following git code will add and save **all** your changes.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Your commit message"
```

**Step 5: Compare with the solution**

Most exercises will have a list of steps for you to check off in the classroom. Once you've checked these off, you'll see a pop up window with a link to the solution code. Note the **Diff** link:

![solutionwindow](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf00f9_solutionwindow/solutionwindow.png
)

The **Diff** link will take you to a Github diff as seen below:
![diff](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/March/58bf0108_diffsceenshot/diffsceenshot.png
)

All of the code that was added in the solution is in green, and the removed code (which will usually be the TODO comments) is in red.
## Report Issues
Notice any issues with a repository? Please file a github issue in the repository.
